Previously...
Annalise... _
I can guarantee the
amount of 40,000 pounds
to be made available to you.
Sandringham.
If we can meet with Sandringham,
convince him this is a bad investment.
What if we host a dinner for the duke?
No, the duke will want to take
the measure of the prince,
decide if he's a man
worth staking his fortune
and his life on.
I've met someone I find most intriguing.
You're speaking of Alex Randall.
I couldn't help but fall in love.
I need to tell you something.
Jack Randall is alive.
Now I can be the one to end his life.
- Leave her alone!
- Aah!
_
Your Highness should not be
subjected to such intemperance.
Let us depart.
_
♪ Sing me a song ♪
♪ Of a lass that is gone ♪
♪ Say, could that lass ♪
♪ Be I? ♪
♪ Merry of soul ♪
♪ She sailed on a day ♪
♪ Over the sea ♪
♪ To Skye ♪
♪ Billow and breeze ♪
♪ Islands and seas ♪
♪ Mountains of rain and sun ♪
♪ All that was good ♪
♪ All that was fair ♪
♪ All that was me ♪
♪ Is gone ♪
♪ Over the sea ♪
♪ To Skye ♪
- sync and corrections by Caio -
- www.addic7ed.com -
_
I hadn't noticed
the noise of the clock
before that evening,
but in that moment, each
annoying tick filled my head,
reminding me that Jamie wasn't there.
After our dinner party
disintegrated into a brawl,
the gens d'armes had come
and arrested everyone.
But it was all a misunderstanding.
Alex Randall hadn't raped Mary Hawkins,
and Jamie had nothing
to do with any of it.
Have you sat up all night long, then?
I'm not the only one.
- He just fell asleep.
- Hmm.
Come on, laddie.
You did well guarding your mistress.
Duverney arrived and...
and ordered the Captain of the Guard
to release us at once.
It's fortunate to have
friends in high places.
Aye.
Are you all right?
Yes, we're fine...
now that you're home.
What about Murtagh and Alex?
Murtagh's downstairs
washing off the stench
of a French prison.
Alex...
he didna fare so well.
Silas claims he saw Alex attack Mary.
His release will... will require
word from the lass herself.
We have to help him, Jamie.
You saw how he came to Mary's aid.
He's not his brother.
Can't the duke vouch for him?
Sandringham will let Alex rot
before he lifts a finger to help.
Now his secretary's been
publicly disgraced.
He's already sent a
dispatch to the Bastille
releasing Alex from his service.
Well, hopefully he'll have
the same opinion of Charles.
The duke was watching the
prince during dinner.
I think he sees him for the...
the poor investment that he is.
Well, unfortunately, the
prince left with St. Germain.
No good can come from that pairing.
I'll set Murtagh to follow St.
Germain...
see if there's anything amiss.
If St. Germain is
responsible for the attack,
then we'll find out.
Can ye remember anything more about it?
Just that they spoke
French like aristocrats,
wore fine clothes and shoes.
How did ye escape?
They mistook me for some
mythical creature named La Dame Blanche.
Fergus said it's some
sorceress nonsense.
Have you heard of it?
Yeah.
I may have once mentioned that...
that I was married to La Dame Blanche.
You did what?
At Maison Elise.
Charles was pushing yet
more trollops into my lap.
I wanted to stay true to
you, but not appear unmanly.
And so calling your wife a
witch was your best idea?
After everything that
happened at Cranesmuir?
Now, there may have been
a fair amount of drinking involved.
How many people heard you?
Only a few, but I guess it was
a good bit of gossip to share.
Oh, I suppose the
assailants were customers
at... at Maison Elise.
Aye.
Aye, and if we find them,
they may lead us to St. Germain.
Heaven help him if he's responsible.
It's been a long night for all of us.
Aye.
And all I wish for
is for you to lay in my arms.
La Dame Blanche.
Monsieur, restock the Belle Rouge
by the south wall.
St. Germain was easy
enough to track, but...
I see nothing suspicious.
Did you learn anything at Maison Elise?
A wench there told me
of several customers...
members of a gang,
masked men
called "Les Disciples"...
aristocrats that prowl the
streets in search of prey.
Claire did say the assailants
were well-spoken and wore fine clothes.
- Aye.
And the way into this gang?
A maidenhead.
Mary was a virgin, was she not?
- Aye.
_
Ye look like a right clarty midden.
Go get some sleep, man.
What is it?
I failed you.
I...
Ye did no such thing.
Ye gave me yer trust...
yer wife and yer child
unborn to guard...
and that wee English lassie.
You were outmanned.
I canna forgive myself for
what happened in that alley...
Or what could have happened.
Then you keep after him.
If St. Germain is behind this...
then we need to connect him
to the gang, Les Disciples.
I will lay just vengeance at your feet
or be damned.
Claire!
Uncle Silas allowed you in?
No, he doesn't know I'm here.
I was able to convince your aunt
it's important I give you
a medical examination.
He refuses to let me out the house.
And he's insisting I l-leave
Paris once I recover.
I was relieved to hear
about Jamie and Murtagh being released.
But will you do me the
favor of delivering this
to the authorities at the Bastille?
It's details of the attack...
explaining Alex's innocence.
I'll see it gets delivered at once.
T-thank you.
Alex is a good man...
with a kind heart.
You, of course, know of
my fondness for him.
I understand.
Now...
how are you feeling?
Ashamed.
Like I'm a different person now...
and I'll never be the same.
You have nothing to be ashamed of.
What happened was not your fault.
How are you feeling physically?
I bled a bit,
but it stopped.
Good. That's normal.
And I brought you some herbs to help.
They're to be brewed in hot water.
And once the infusion cools,
then you can apply it with a cloth.
Am I going to have a baby?
No.
I don't believe so.
He... your attacker...
He wasn't able to finish.
I'm so grateful for all
you've done, Claire.
At least... at least now
they can't force me to
marry that dreadful man,
The Vicomte.
Uncle says he'd n-never
take a soiled bride.
Well, good riddance.
You are far too pretty,
not to mention sweet,
to marry such a warty old man.
I-I just know that once Alex is freed,
he'll return to me.
We're hoping to be married.
Marriage?
When Mary mentioned Alex
Randall at the hospital,
I thought it nothing more
than a young girl's crush.
If Alex and Mary were to wed,
what would become of the lineage
Mary and Jack Randall supposedly ensure?
What becomes of Frank?
Did I hold the key to Frank's existence
in the palm of my hand?
Could I simply release my grasp,
dispose of the letter,
and allow fate to carry out its plan?
But how could I condemn
Alex Randall to prison
without the utmost certainty
it would ensure Frank's existence?
James, my good man.
Your Royal Highness.
The female haze that
once clouded my mind
has been lifted.
I have excellent news.
Open your finest bottle of Burgundy.
Aye.
Uh...
is this to do with your investors?
Make no mention of those scoundrels.
They have shown their true colors.
What if I were to tell you
we were about to come into
possession of 10,000 pounds...
Sterling?
I'd say this is what
we've been waiting for.
I have dispatched a letter to my father
informing him of our good fortune.
Mark me, James,
the king has led a dolorous life
full of misfortune.
And now I stand poised
to lay at his feet
the world's most treasured gift...
The throne of Britain.
And, uh, who is it...
that offers such a prize?
The Comte St. Germain.
He wishes to buy a large shipment
of Portuguese Madeira.
However, the comte is short of funds
and in desperate need
of a business partner.
And what does the comte require?
I've secured a bank loan
to provide half the funds
to buy the shipment.
Once we sell the wine,
we'll earn ourselves a rich profit.
But not enough to finance an army.
But enough to begin securing ships,
weapons, fighting men
for our holy cause.
And when your friend Duverney
hears what we will accomplish,
he'll have proof for the king
that it's a worthy investment.
And with French money,
we will unite the clans,
and I will lead you all
to the gates of London
and to glory.
Good news indeed.
Although the, uh...
the thought of a partnership
with St. Germain
does leave me uneasy.
I am no fool, James.
I am well aware of his
damnable reputation.
Well, you've heard he's said
to dwell in heretical circles.
They talk of demonic rituals.
Rumor and innuendo.
I pay no more attention to that
than I do to the rumors
about your wife...
La Dame Blanche.
Huh.
St. Germain is no lover of my cause,
but he is a man of business.
And I have arranged for you
to be the one to sell the wine.
Me?
Oh, who better than you
to secure the buyer and keep a wary eye
on St. Germain?
Well, when are we to
expect this shipment?
Do not plague me with
workmen's concerns.
I have arranged for you and St. Germain
to meet in Maison Elise
to discuss particulars.
To the glorious day
when the rightful king
sits upon the British throne once more.
The glorious day.
I cannot fully express
my gratitude to you
for your help.
The Bastille was a
frightening experience.
I'm sure it was.
Mary tells me of your plans to wed.
Yes. Isn't it wonderful?
Of course.
However, I am concerned
about your ability
to find a new position in Paris
now that the duke has discharged
you from his service.
Beg your pardon.
You are unwell, Alex,
and your condition has
not improved with time.
Surely you wouldn't want
Mary robbed of her youth
playing nurse.
Of course not.
Mary's my friend,
and she's young and impressionable.
My concern is for her well-being...
a concern I trust you share,
but perhaps you should consider
what kind of life it is
you're offering her.
But of course.
Then you should set aside your feelings.
I fear traveling from city to city,
seeking a new position,
living a hand-to-mouth existence is...
well, it's not the future that
Mary has envisioned for herself.
You have to think what's best for Mary.
Condemning Mary to a life of penury
is something I wouldn't dream of.
I love her enough
to want her to have the
future she deserves.
She's going to be devastated, you know.
Yes, she will.
She loves you very much.
But in time,
she will move on from this.
Thank you for your
candor, Madame Fraser.
Mary is fortunate to have a friend
as caring as you.
It broke my heart to break his.
Alex and Mary clearly loved one another,
and I was robbing them of happiness.
But what choice did I have?
I forced myself to
focus on the evidence.
Mary Hawkins and Jonathan Randall
were to have a child together.
I saw the proof of
that with my own eyes.
Alex and Mary simply could not be...
for Frank's sake.
_
I don't wish to be joined
together in business,
nor do I wish to sit in your
presence longer than is needed,
so let's just get on with it, shall we?
_
Since you brought up my wife,
let me make this clear...
someone tried to poison her
and attacked her in the street,
then raped her friend.
My memory is as long as yours.
When I find the man responsible,
he'll die a very slow
and very painful death.
_
If this wine venture is successful
and the prince manages to
secure other investors,
I have no doubt he'll set sail
for Scotland straightaway.
Well, then it's simple:
Charles must not get his
hands on that money.
Somehow we have to find a way
to dispose of that
shipment before it's sold.
Maybe St. Germain will do us a wee favor
and bring in another ship
infected with smallpox.
Huh.
I ken that look, Sassenach.
I was merely joking about the smallpox.
Well, I'm not.
Ye happen to have a-a bottle of it
amongst yer potions, do ye?
No, not the actual disease.
But there are herbs that can
be used to make it appear
as though smallpox is present in St.
Germain's crew,
convince everyone the shipment's tainted
and have it destroyed.
Is such a thing even possible?
I'm not sure.
I'll look into it tomorrow.
Huh.
Well, don't forget we're
due at the royal stables.
I agreed to help the duke
with the purchase of a team of horses.
- Oh, that's tomorrow?
- Aye.
You don't owe that man
any favors, Jamie.
And neither do I wish to be
the subject of his disfavor.
Hmm.
I've been waiting for a good time
to surprise ye with this.
What is it?
Sure.
Apostle spoons...
One for each of the 12 Apostles...
Christening gift for the bairn.
Jamie.
Well, where did you get them?
Ah.
They've been passed down
in my family for years.
I wrote to Jenny
after we arrived to
tell her our good news
and to ask for the spoons
for our wee bairn.
She said she was so full of excitement,
she could hardly keep the
quill steady in her hand.
I know it sounds ridiculous,
but I can't help but wondering
if I'll be any good at it...
Being a mother.
Of course you will.
Well, I'm a nurse.
I know how to deliver a baby,
how to feed one,
how to take care of one
when it's ill, but...
that's not being a mother.
I only have a vague memory
of my own mother...
nothing really to guide me.
What you don't ken, ye'll learn.
We'll learn...
together.
I do love you.
I love you too...
I do miss the smell of the stable.
That makes one of us.
Jamie, lad. Ah, your glowing bride.
My dear, your condition only
enhances your ravishing beauty.
Oh, I may be ill.
- Oh.
- It's not contagious.
But if you gentlemen will excuse me...
Aye, now there's a bonny lad.
Fair, strong back,
straight-legged...
sound at the hip.
Aye. Aye, he's grand, Your Grace.
Excellent. Well, let's take him.
I was very displeased to
hear of your legal woes,
especially after such a lovely dinner.
The Bastille, perish the thought.
This one...
dull in the eye and splints.
Pass.
I wasn't at the Bastille for long,
but other poor devils have
been there for decades.
Ah, well, life can be harsh.
Madame Broch Tuarach...
_
Merci.
It may be some small
consolation to you to know
that your dinner party
was not entirely wasted.
It allowed me to take the
measure of your prince.
And what was your assessment?
My considered opinion?
He's an utter ass.
I'm sorry to hear yer opinion
of the prince is such.
I imagine you are,
especially since you seem
to have pledged yourself
to his service.
They claim they're
three-year-olds, but...
oh, this one's seen a
fair few seasons more.
Your knowledge astounds me.
But I wonder that someone
who's such a good judge of horseflesh
is such a poor judge of men.
I see the prince for what he is,
but his father is the true king.
Nobly said.
Ah, now here's a fine stallion...
well put together.
Oh, it's magnificent.
My word.
But I must see a few more.
I'm a man who cherishes options.
Don't you?
Tell me, you have lived in Scotland.
Do you find life there to be simpler?
In some ways.
Not in others.
The politics and manipulations
among the clans and lads
can sometimes rival even the
intrigues of Versailles.
James was never a man for intrigue...
at least not in those days.
He was direct, honest, simple.
I wouldn't call Jamie simple.
Not today.
Now he's a man of business...
of politics...
Like all the others.
It saddens me to think of him like that.
He's still Jamie.
I doubt he will ever lose sight
of who he truly is at heart.
When I knew him, he was impulsive,
headstrong.
He still is.
Ah, but when I knew him, he was a boy.
You've turned him into a man.
Speaking of men,
there's a rather dashing one
over there staring at us.
He seems quite taken with you.
Claire?
I take it you two are... acquainted?
Yes.
Yes, we are.
_
Are you in discomfort, Captain?
I met with an accident some time ago.
I'm sorry, Annalise.
Suddenly I'm feeling very unwell.
I-I should go.
I will call for your husband.
No, it's not necessary.
Jamie?
He's here?
Where?
You should go.
If he sees you, he will cut your throat.
That would be a lethal mistake.
Drawing a sword in the
presence of the king
is punishable by death.
This is unbelievable.
The fates are toying with us now,
setting our feet on
seemingly divergent paths
that still somehow converge
in the most unlikely of places.
Get out of my way.
Claire, surely you of all people
can step outside the
passions of the moment
and appreciate the
sublime preposterousness
of a universe that would
guide us to a meeting...
at the French court.
Let go of me.
The king?
Fuck the king.
_
You will forgive the rudeness
of these children, Captain.
The French language is not
easily mastered by the English.
I took no offense, sire.
Oh, but perhaps the king
himself has offended you,
Madame Fraser?
_
The king admires your
uniform, Captain...
so seldom seen at this court.
Such bold colors
as befit the brave soldiers
of your sovereign.
A pity that your countrymen
are usually too busy
slaughtering each other to
exchange such pleasantries.
Uh, speaking as a soldier of
many years, Your Majesty,
I must say that I find war
preferable to politics.
At least in war, you know your enemies.
Hmm, the king finds some
truth in what you say.
However, we hope your
affection for carnage
does not ultimately prove fatal for you.
You and the Captain are friends, Madame?
We are acquainted.
Hmm, does that not present
difficulty with your husband?
He is, after all, a
proud Scottish warrior
and great supporter of my
cousin's rightful claim
to the British throne.
Or perhaps you have not
met Lord Broch Tuarach?
Captain Randall and I have met
several times, Your Majesty.
Are you well, Captain?
Very well, sir. Thank you.
I hear you had a... an unfortunate
encounter with some...
sheep, was it?
Uh, cattle, actually.
Ah, but now
you've quite recovered.
Mostly. I still have a little difficulty
getting out of bed on cold mornings.
Really? I understand the
weather here in Paris
is to be quite warm all week.
You need to have no concern
for my health, then.
Delighted to hear it.
Tell us, Captain...
why are you here?
I am, in fact, here on an errand
of mercy to aid my brother.
Your Majesty, until recently,
my brother was in the employ
of the duke of Sandringham.
I have come here to ask His Grace
to reconsider his position.
Perhaps you should beg.
Uh, beg, Your Majesty?
Yes. On your knees.
To ask such a favor of
a man like the duke
would not be possible.
To beg him, however, that
is a different matter.
On your knees.
Not now.
You English are so...
literal.
_
Of course. _
You may retire as well,
Lord Broch Tuarach.
The king gives you leave to rise.
It would be a shame to stain
such pretty britches.
Are you really unwell, Sassenach?
Is it the bairn?
No, I'm fine.
You sure?
Yes, I just wanted us to get away...
All right.
Wait here.
Jamie.
What just happened?
I challenged him to a
duel, and he accepted.
He said he owed me a death.
- It's a great day, laddie.
- Is it?
Oh, you have no idea.
Fetch Murtagh at once.
Yes, milord.
_
I'll arrange the particulars
with his second.
As the challenged, Randall
selects the weapons.
Aye.
And what if it's pistols?
What then?
He'll not take pistols.
It's too quick, too far apart.
He'll want to look me in the eye.
Aye, but don't err in
judging the man's skills.
You don't become Captain of Dragoons
unless you know how to handle a blade.
Hmm.
There won't be any duel.
Randall is locked away in the Bastille.
On what charge?
I swore an accusation against him...
that he was the one who
attacked Mary and me.
Christ, woman, what have ye done?
- Murtagh, please.
- Have you lost your mind?
Swearing a false charge?
They won't be able to hold him for long,
and I'll say I must have been mistaken.
But it's long enough to
get you to listen to me.
Jamie, you can't go through with this.
Why would you do such a thing, Claire?
Because dueling is outlawed in France.
And if you're caught, you could spend
the rest of your life
behind bars or worse.
I won't risk that.
You are about to become a father.
You have to think of me and your child.
No. No, there are places in the city
where the gens d'armes are not present.
He won't get caught. I'll see to it.
Murtagh, will you please leave?
This is between Jamie and me.
You gave me a gift, Claire...
when you told me Randall was alive.
A gift...
knowing I'd be the one to
end that bastard's life.
No.
Now I claim that gift.
Please, listen to me, Jamie.
You can't kill Randall.
There's no reason.
Because of Frank.
Frank?
If you kill Randall now, then Frank...
he won't be born.
W-what do you mean?
Remember I told you once
that Frank showed me his family tree
and on it was the name Jack Randall?
Aye.
He married Mary Hawkins.
Together they're supposed
to have a child,
and that child is Frank's ancestor.
But if you kill Randall
before the child is born,
then it would be as if
you're killing Frank too.
And he won't exist, and he must exist.
It's part of the future.
I thought we were here
to change the future.
Frank's innocent in all of this.
You can't kill an innocent man.
"Innocent"?
He's committed no crime
against either of us.
For that, Jack Randall should live?
I-I can stand a lot, more than most.
I've proven as much.
But must I bear everyone's weakness?
May I not have my own?
You of all people canna
expect that of me, Claire.
You were there. You saw
what he did to me.
- A delay, a delay is all I ask.
- No.
No, you have your choice... him or me?
I canna live while Randall lives.
If you wilna allow me to kill him,
then kill me now yerself.
One year.
T-the... Then the child, Randall's,
it will be conceived by then,
and after that, I swear...
I swear I will help
you bleed him myself.
You owe me that much, James Fraser.
I've saved your life,
not once, but twice.
You owe me a life.
I see.
And now you claim your debt.
I can't make you see
reason any other way.
Jesus.
God, Claire.
You'd stop me taking vengeance
on the man that made
me play his whore...
The man that lived in my nightmares
and in our bed...
Who almost drove me to take my own life.
I'm a man of honor.
I pay my debts.
So tell me now,
is that what you're asking of me?
To pay you with the life
of Black Jack Randall?
Yes.
A year...
Not one day more.
Do not...
touch me.
- sync and corrections by Caio -
- www.addic7ed.com -